{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}MS Shell Dlg;}
{\f154\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 030604020304060b0204}Informal Roman;}{\f177\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f178\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f180\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f181\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f182\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f183\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f184\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f401\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg CE;}{\f402\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg Cyr;}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg Greek;}{\f405\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg Tur;}
{\f406\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg (Hebrew);}{\f407\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg (Arabic);}{\f408\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 MS Shell Dlg Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f154\fs44\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Title;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}}{\info{\author DoDDS-E}{\operator DoDDS-E}{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy7\hr10\min51}{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy7\hr12\min35}{\printim\yr2005\mo11\dy7\hr12\min35}{\version3}{\edmins37}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords780}{\nofchars4451}
{\*\company DoDEA}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \s16\qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Jim Brendlinger
\par World History & Lit. \endash  A4/B2
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f154\fs44\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
{ANCIENT MACEDONIA
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {I\rquote ve arrived in Macedonia; it is spring of 336 BC.  Macedonia is located in most of northern modern day Greece, and some of western modern day Bulgaria.  I\rquote 
m wearing the standard light clock that travelers would wear (referred to as a \'93chlamys\'94), and a travelers hat (which was called a \'93petasos\'94).  I\rquote 
m riding my trader cart along one of the paths that lead to one of the gateways to Pella.  Pella is the ancient Macedonian capital.  It was named the capital at the beginning of the fourth century BC.  Pella is located on the shores of \'93Lake Loudias.
\'94  Lake Loudias flowed out into the \'93Thermiac Gulf.\'94  I\rquote m nearing in on Pella\rquote s fortified walls.  The walls are built tactically and are made up of both man-made and natural barriers.  The gate to the city is built 
along low-lying terrain, and it is in sync with close paths, including the one I\rquote 
m on at the moment.  The gates welcome me and are pulled back.  As I walk through they immediately begin to close them again.  They do this because the guards are on watch for barbarians attempting to weaken their walls.  
\par I walk buy some drainage vents and houses.  Pella has a very sophisticated sewer system.  One of the homes near me has a faucet and a little boy is drinking from it.  Pella also had a very sophisticated water supply.  I\rquote 
m now riding along one of the broad paved streets that will lead me to the central Agora.  Also, some of the main paved streets lead to the port of Pella.  As I ride my cart along this street, I see other men and women. Other clothing among the
 Macedonian men walking by me is a tunic, which are full-length or knee-length, and a mantle.  The mantle was much like a toga.  The women wears consist of gowns, which were called a \'93peplos,\'94 and a \'93sakkos,\'94
 that is a hairnet.  The Agora is the market-place of the city.  As I enter it I notice this Agora is in a rectangular form, and is situated on two major paths of the city area.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\tab Agoras, being the heart of an ancient Macedonian city, are home to \'93shops and warehouses, public sanctuaries, altars, assembl
y areas, fountains, recreational areas, meeting areas, and the seat of the civil service\'94
 (which were record offices and so on).  As I enter one of the shops I notice it is selling some pottery.  The merchant begins to offer me items in their language.  The language spoken here is, believe it or not, ancient Macedonian.  It is an \'93
Independent Indo-European language.\'94   This language was spoken during the fifth and fourth centuries BC.  The language does not have any direct ties with other languages, however some scholars say that the language gave way to Greek language.  
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {I leave the pottery shop, and glance at some of the others.  Among them are figurine shops and food shops.  I leave Pella's Agora and make my way to one of the palaces.  During the Alexande
r the Great and Philp II's reigns Pella became more and more filled with marvelous private houses and palaces.  This palace is near the agora.  As I walk along one of the paths into the public area of the palace I notice the residential areas of these pal
a
ces were located around the central columned courtyard, which was referred to as "peristyle."  The other gateways and paths (including the one I walked here on) are built around this courtyard.  The palaces pereistyle would often contain fountains.  The g
ateways and paths were built around this courtyard, and would often contain fountains.  This palace has three fountains directly centered in the peristyle.
\par I leave this courtyard and make my way to the theatre.  They build theaters near or even apart of the
 palace.  These palaces would often be renovated when a new owner inhabited it. This theater is built about 10 feet from the palaces exit gateway.  I enter the theatre and it is based on the same architecture as the palace, except there is a stage on an e
l
evated platform.  It is surrounded around the south end by columns, which resemble that of those in the courtyard of the palace.  At the moment there are only a few kids playing in the seats, very early for the show.  The closer seats were made of cushion
ing, and were meant for higher ranked people.
\par I leave the theatre and travel along the street away from the agora some.  I pass by a private home.  In the past, before Alexander the Great's reign, private houses were built from cheap materials and were ofte
n only one floor.  But, in this time grand two story homes dot Pella.  I admire this home for its decorative design.  It is built two stories high and looks very sturdy.  The owner invites me inside to look around and I gracefully accept.  As I enter I no
tice the floor is decorated with an \'93artistic mosaic composition.\'94
  These floors were very common within Pella.  The inside entrance is very wide, filled with very detailed designs along the walls.  The owner invites me to a small table within the living quarters, which has a vast view over the lively agora.  
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {A servant of his brings out Balkan.  Balkan was either a cheese or meat \'93pie.\'94  Much like my mom\rquote s cheese b\'f6rek. 
\par \tab The house owner uses unmatchable manners, unmatchable by me at least.  I try as best a
s possible to sit and eat as he does, but he is obviously aware of my faulty attempts.  I sit very stout and eat with only one hand on the table, I lay down one utensil and don\rquote t eat with both of them in my hand.  After I\rquote 
m done eating he waves me goodbye and I wave back, with mannerism, I wave Ancient Macedonia good bye. }{\f28\fs17 
\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }}